= SDL_image 3.0 =

The latest version of this library is available from [https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL_image/releases GitHub].

This is a simple library to load images of various formats as SDL surfaces.

It can load BMP, GIF, JPEG, LBM, PCX, PNG, PNM (PPM/PGM/PBM), QOI, TGA, XCF, XPM, and simple SVG format images. It can also load AVIF, JPEG-XL, TIFF, and WebP images, depending on build options (see the note below for details.)

Refer to [[CategoryAPI]] for a list of functions, and the examples [https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL_image/blob/main/examples/showimage.c showimage.c] for documentation on this library.

This library is under the zlib License, see the file [https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL_image/blob/main/LICENSE.txt LICENSE.txt] for details.

Note:
* Support for AVIF, JPEG-XL, TIFF, and WebP are not included by default because of the size of the decode libraries, but you can get them by running external/download.sh
* When building with CMake, you can enable the appropriate SUPPORT_* options defined in CMakeLists.txt.
* When building with configure/make, you can build and install them normally and the configure script will detect and use them.
* When building with Visual Studio, you will need to build the libraries and then add the appropriate LOAD_* preprocessor define to the Visual Studio project.
* When building with Xcode, you can edit the config at the top of the project to enable them, and you will need to include the appropriate framework in your application.
* For Android, you can edit the config at the top of Android.mk to enable them.
