<!-- # Please edit system and help pages ONLY in the master wiki! -->
<!-- # For more information, please see MoinMoin:MoinDev/Translation. -->
<!-- #master-page:FrontPage -->
<!-- format wiki -->
<!-- language en -->
<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- acl Lauren MacDonell:read,write Sam Lantinga:read,write All:read -->
= Simple DirectMedia Layer 1.3 Wiki =
This wiki is your portal to documentation and other resources for SDL 1.3.

<<TableOfContents(3)>>

== Using the SDL documentation Wiki ==
Use the links under the '''Navigation Links''' heading on the left-hand menu to access:

* API reference [[APIRefName|by name]] or [[APIRefCategory|by category]]
* [[Tutorials|tutorials]]
* [[Articles|articles]]
* [[Books|books]]
* [[FAQs]]
* [http://forums.libsdl.org/ forums|target="blank"]

Registered users can use the '''Edit''' links under the '''Page Actions''' heading on the left-hand menu to add or update content in the wiki. For help using the editing functions see the [[HelpOnEditing|MoinMoin Wiki Help]] pages, also available at any time from the Wiki Help link under the '''Navigation Links''' heading.

== Introduction to SDL ==
=== What is SDL? ===
SDL is a free cross-platform multi-media development         API, used for games, game SDK's, emulators, MPEG players and other applcations.

=== What can SDL do? ===
'''''Video'''''

* Set a video mode at any depth (8-bpp or greater)                 with optional conversion, if the video mode is                 not supported by the hardware.
* Write directly to a linear graphics framebuffer.
* Create surfaces with colorkey or alpha blending                 attributes.
* Surface blits are automatically converted to the                 target format using optimized blitters and are                 hardware accelerated, when possible. MMX                 optimized blits are available for the x86.
* Hardware accelerated blit and fill operations are                 used if supported by the hardware.

'''''Events'''''

* Events provided for:
* Application visibility changes
* Keyboard input
* Mouse input
* User-requested quit
* Each event can be enabled or disabled with                 SDL_EventState().
* Events are passed through a user-specified filter                 function before being posted to the internal                 event queue.
* Thread-safe event queue.

'''''Audio'''''

* Set audio playback of 8-bit and 16-bit audio,                 mono or stereo, with optional conversion if the                 format is not supported by the hardware.
* Audio runs independently in a separate thread,                 filled via a user callback mechanism.
* Designed for custom software audio mixers, but                 the example archive contains a complete                 audio/music output library.

'''''Threads'''''

* Simple thread creation API
* Simple binary semaphores for synchronization

'''''Timers'''''

* Get the number of milliseconds elapsed
* Wait a specified number of milliseconds
* Set a single periodic timer with 10ms resolution

'''''Endian Independence'''''

* Detect the endianness of the current system
* Routines for fast swapping of data values
* Read and write data of a specified endianness

=== What platforms does SDL run on? ===
'''''Linux'''''

* Uses X11 for video display, taking advantage of                 XFree86 DGA extensions and new MTRR acceleration                 for fullscreen display.
* Uses the OSS API for sound.
* Threads are implemented using either the clone()                 system call and SysV IPC, or glibc-2.1 pthreads.

'''''Windows'''''

* Two versions, one safe for all systems based on                 Win32 APIs, and one with higher performance,                 based on DirectX APIs.
* Safe version uses GDI for video display. High                 performance version uses !DirectDraw for video                 display, taking advantage of hardware                 acceleration if available.
* Safe version uses waveOut APIs for sound. High                 performace version uses !DirectSound for audio                 playback.

'''''Mac OS'''''

* more info?

=== Special features in SDL 1.3 ===
* Full 3D hardware acceleration
* Support for OpenGL 3.0
* Support for multiple windows
* Support for multiple displays
* Support for multiple mice, tablets, etc.
* Force Feedback available on Windows, Mac OS X and Linux

Interesting starting points:

* RecentChanges: see where people are currently working
* WikiSandBox: feel free to change this page and experiment with editing
* FindPage: search or browse the database in various ways
* HelpOnMoinWikiSyntax: quick access to wiki markup
* SiteNavigation: get an overview over this site and what it contains

== How to use this site ==
A Wiki is a collaborative site, anyone can contribute and share:

* Edit any page by pressing '''<<GetText(Edit)>>''' at the top or the bottom of the page
* Create a link to another page with joined capitalized words (like WikiSandBox) or with ```[[words in brackets]]```
* Search for page titles or text within pages using the search box at the top of any page
* See HelpForBeginners to get you going, HelpContents for all help pages.
* For customizing MoinMoin's language support see HelpOnLanguages.

To learn more about what a WikiWikiWeb is, read about MoinMoin:WhyWikiWorks and the MoinMoin:WikiNature. Also, consult the HelpMiscellaneous/FrequentlyAskedQuestions page.

This wiki is powered by [http://moinmo.in/ MoinMoin].
