<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- pragma disable-camelcase -->

= SDL_GetNumAudioDevices =
Use this function to return the number of built-in audio devices.


== Syntax ==
```c++
int SDL_GetNumAudioDevices(int iscapture)
```

== Function Parameters ==
{|
|'''iscapture'''
|zero to request playback devices, non-zero to request recording devices
|}

== Return Value ==
Returns the number of available devices exposed by the current driver or -1 if an explicit list of devices can't be determined. A return value of -1 does not necessarily mean an error condition. See [[#Remarks|Remarks]] for details.

== Code Examples ==
```c++
int i, count = SDL_GetNumAudioDevices(0);
for (i = 0; i < count; ++i) {
    printf("Audio device %d: %s\n", i, SDL_GetAudioDeviceName(i, 0));
}
```

== Remarks ==
This function is only valid after successfully initializing the audio subsystem.

Note that audio capture support is not implemented as of SDL 2.0.4, so the '''iscapture''' parameter is for future expansion and should always be zero for now.

This function will return -1 if an explicit list of devices can't be determined. Returning -1 is not an error. For example, if SDL is set up to talk to a remote audio server, it can't list every one available on the Internet, but it will still allow a specific host to be specified in [[SDL_OpenAudioDevice]]().

In many common cases, when this function returns a value <= 0, it can still successfully open the default device (NULL for first argument of [[SDL_OpenAudioDevice]]()).

This function may trigger a complete redetect of available hardware. It should not be called for each iteration of a loop, but rather once at the start of a loop:

```c++
// Don't do this: for (int i = 0; i < SDL_GetNumAudioDevices(0); i++)
// do this instead:
const int count = SDL_GetNumAudioDevices(0);
for (int i = 0; i < count; ++i) { /* do something here. */ }
```


== Version ==
This function is available since SDL 2.0.0.

== Related Functions ==
:[[SDL_GetAudioDeviceName]]
:[[SDL_OpenAudioDevice]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryAudio]]
