<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- pragma camelcase off -->
'''DRAFT'''

= SDL_SetAssertionHandler =
Use this function to set an application-defined assertion handler.


== Syntax ==
```c++
void SDL_SetAssertionHandler(SDL_AssertionHandler handler,
                             void*                userdata)
```

== Function Parameters ==
{|
|'''handler'''
|the callback function called when an assertion fails; see [[#Remarks|Remarks]] for details
|-
|'''userdata'''
|a pointer passed to the callback as-is
|}

== Return Value ==
Returns a value from the callback. ???  or delete this section?

== Code Examples ==
```c++
You can add your code example here
```

== Remarks ==
This ^function^ allows an app to show its own assertion UI and/or force the response to an assertion failure. If the app doesn't provide this, SDL will try to do the right thing, popping up a system-specific GUI dialog, and probably minimizing any fullscreen windows.

'''handler''' has the following form:
 ```
SDL_assert_state (SDLCALL *SDL_AssertionHandler)(
                           const SDL_assert_data*, void* userdata)
```
<<Color2(green,Should this be formatted like a regular function?)>>
: where <code>(SDLCALL *SDL_AssertionHandler)</code> is the name of the callback, <code>data</code> is a pointer to an [[SDL_assert_data]] struct, and <code>userdata</code> takes what is passed in '''userdata'''.
<<Color2(green,Should the callback info be described here?)>>
:The callback returns an [[SDL_assert_state]] value of how to handle the assertion failure.

<<Color2(green,This seems to be the RV for the callback. Since this function has a void RV.  Should it be listed here anyway?)>>

This callback may fire from any thread, but it runs wrapped in a mutex, so it will only fire from one thread at a time.

Setting the callback to NULL restores SDL's original internal handler.

This callback is NOT reset to SDL's internal handler upon [[SDL_Quit]]()!



== Related Functions ==
:[[SDL_OtherFunction]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryAssertions]]
