====== (This is the documentation for SDL3, which is under heavy development and the API is changing! SDL2 is the current stable version!) ======

== Draft ==

'''THIS PAGE IS A WORK IN PROGRESS''' ... Please make edits to this page to improve it!



<!-- #*^*^*^*^*See https://wiki.libsdl.org/SGFunctions for details on editing this page*^*^*^*^* -->
= SDL_ShowMessageBox =

Create a modal message box.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
int SDL_ShowMessageBox(const SDL_MessageBoxData *messageboxdata, int *buttonid);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''messageboxdata'''
|the [[SDL_MessageBoxData]] structure with title, text and other options
|-
|'''buttonid'''
|the pointer to which user id of hit button should be copied
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns 0 on success or a negative error code on failure; call
[[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

== Remarks ==

If your needs aren't complex, it might be easier to use
[[SDL_ShowSimpleMessageBox]].

This function should be called on the thread that created the parent
window, or on the main thread if the messagebox has no parent. It will
block execution of that thread until the user clicks a button or closes the
messagebox.

This function may be called at any time, even before [[SDL_Init]](). This
makes it useful for reporting errors like a failure to create a renderer or
OpenGL context.

On X11, SDL rolls its own dialog box with X11 primitives instead of a
formal toolkit like GTK+ or Qt.

Note that if [[SDL_Init]]() would fail because there isn't any available
video target, this function is likely to fail for the same reasons. If this
is a concern, check the return value from this function and fall back to
writing to stderr if you can.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 2.0.0.

== Code Examples ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c++'>
#include "SDL.h"

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    const SDL_MessageBoxButtonData buttons[] = {
        { /* .flags, .buttonid, .text */        0, 0, "no" },
        { SDL_MESSAGEBOX_BUTTON_RETURNKEY_DEFAULT, 1, "yes" },
        { SDL_MESSAGEBOX_BUTTON_ESCAPEKEY_DEFAULT, 2, "cancel" },
    };
    const SDL_MessageBoxColorScheme colorScheme = {
        { /* .colors (.r, .g, .b) */
            /* [SDL_MESSAGEBOX_COLOR_BACKGROUND] */
            { 255,   0,   0 },
            /* [SDL_MESSAGEBOX_COLOR_TEXT] */
            {   0, 255,   0 },
            /* [SDL_MESSAGEBOX_COLOR_BUTTON_BORDER] */
            { 255, 255,   0 },
            /* [SDL_MESSAGEBOX_COLOR_BUTTON_BACKGROUND] */
            {   0,   0, 255 },
            /* [SDL_MESSAGEBOX_COLOR_BUTTON_SELECTED] */
            { 255,   0, 255 }
        }
    };
    const SDL_MessageBoxData messageboxdata = {
        SDL_MESSAGEBOX_INFORMATION, /* .flags */
        NULL, /* .window */
        "example message box", /* .title */
        "select a button", /* .message */
        SDL_arraysize(buttons), /* .numbuttons */
        buttons, /* .buttons */
        &colorScheme /* .colorScheme */
    };
    int buttonid;
    if (SDL_ShowMessageBox(&messageboxdata, &buttonid) < 0) {
        SDL_Log("error displaying message box");
        return 1;
    }
    if (buttonid == -1) {
        SDL_Log("no selection");
    } else {
        SDL_Log("selection was %s", buttons[buttonid].text);
    }
    return 0;
}
</syntaxhighlight>

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_ShowSimpleMessageBox]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryVideo]], [[CategoryDraft]]
<!-- #See the Style Guide for instructions on editing the footer. -->


