<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- pragma disable-camelcase -->
'''DRAFT'''

= SDL_JoystickOpen =
Use this function to open a joystick for use.


== Syntax ==
```c++
SDL_Joystick* SDL_JoystickOpen(int device_index)
```

== Function Parameters ==
{|
|'''device_index'''
|the index of the joystick to query
|}

== Return Value ==
Returns a joystick identifier or NULL if an error occurred; call [[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

== Code Examples ==
```c++
SDL_Joystick *joy;

// Initialize the joystick subsystem
SDL_InitSubSystem(SDL_INIT_JOYSTICK);

// Check for joystick
if (SDL_NumJoysticks() > 0) {
    // Open joystick
    joy = SDL_JoystickOpen(0);

    if (joy) {
        printf("Opened Joystick 0\n");
        printf("Name: %s\n", SDL_JoystickNameForIndex(0));
        printf("Number of Axes: %d\n", SDL_JoystickNumAxes(joy));
        printf("Number of Buttons: %d\n", SDL_JoystickNumButtons(joy));
        printf("Number of Balls: %d\n", SDL_JoystickNumBalls(joy));
    } else {
        printf("Couldn't open Joystick 0\n");
    }
  
    // Close if opened
    if (SDL_JoystickGetAttached(joy)) {
        SDL_JoystickClose(joy);
    }
}
```

== Remarks ==
The index passed as an argument refers to the N'th joystick on the system.  This index is the value which will identify this joystick in future joystick events.  <span style="color: green;">Should index be changed to '''device_index''' or leave it as is per the header because it is not being used as the param name here? Does this function effectively set the index number of each joystick device?</span>

*<br/>Remember to initialize the joystick subsystem<br/>* <span style="color: green;">The joystick subsystem must be initialized before a joystick can be opened for use.</span>

== Related Functions ==
:[[SDL_JoystickClose]]

<span style="color: green;">There are a number of functions that list this one as a RF based on the old wiki. Do we want them all to be reciprocated here?</span>

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryJoystick]]
