<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- pragma disable-camelcase -->

= SDL_RenderClear =
Use this function to clear the current rendering target with the drawing color.


== Syntax ==
```c++
int SDL_RenderClear(SDL_Renderer* renderer)
```

== Function Parameters ==
{|
|'''renderer'''
|the rendering context
|}

== Return Value ==
Returns 0 on success or a negative error code on failure; call [[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

== Code Examples ==
```c++
#include <SDL/SDL.h>

int main(int argc, char** argv)
{
	// Initialize SDL.
	if (SDL_Init(SDL_INIT_VIDEO) < 0)
		return 1;
	
	// Create the window were we will draw.
	SDL_Window* window = 
		SDL_CreateWindow("SDL_RenderClear",
		SDL_WINDOWPOS_CENTERED, SDL_WINDOWPOS_CENTERED,
		512, 512,
		SDL_WINDOW_SHOWN);
	
	// We must call SDL_CreateRenderer in order for draw calls to affect this window.
	SDL_Renderer* renderer = SDL_CreateRenderer(window, -1, 0);
	
	// Select the color for drawing. It is set to red here.
	SDL_SetRenderDrawColor(renderer, 255, 0, 0, 0);
	
	// Clear the entire screen to our selected color.
	SDL_RenderClear(renderer);
	
	// Up until now everything was drawn behind the scenes.
	// This will show the new, red contents of the window.
	SDL_RenderPresent(renderer);
	
	// Give us time to see the window.
	SDL_Delay(5000);
	
	// Always be sure to clean up
	SDL_Quit();
	return 0;
}
```

== Remarks ==
''You can add useful comments here''

== Related Functions ==
:[[SDL_SetRenderDrawColor]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryRender]]
