<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- pragma camelcase off -->
'''DRAFT'''


<!-- #*^*^*^*^*See http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/SGFunctions for details on editing this page*^*^*^*^* -->


= SDL_OpenURL =
This function opens an URL / URI in the browser or other appropriate external application.

See Remarks for more details.



== Syntax ==
```c++
int SDL_OpenURL(const char *url)
```


== Function Parameters ==
{|
|'''url'''
|A valid URL/URI to open. Use <code>file:///full/path/to/file</code> for local files
|}

== Return Value ==
Returns 0 on success, or -1 on error; call [[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

== Code Examples ==
```c++
You can add your code example here
```

<!-- #Leave this section as-is unless you have a code example to put in.  In that case, replace You can add your code example here with your code example following the Style Guide instructions.  Leave the rest of the markup alone and delete this comment. -->


== Remarks ==

Open a URL in a separate, system-provided application. How this works will
vary wildly depending on the platform. This will likely launch what
makes sense to handle a specific URL's protocol (a web browser for <code>http://</code>, etc),
but it might also be able to launch file managers for directories and other things.

What happens when you open a URL varies wildly as well: your game window
may lose focus (and may or may not lose focus if your game was fullscreen
or grabbing input at the time). On mobile devices, your app will likely
move to the background or your process might be paused. Any given platform
may or may not handle a given URL.

If this is unimplemented (or simply unavailable) for a platform, this will
fail with an error. A successful result does not mean the URL loaded, just
that we launched something to handle it (or at least believe we did).

All this to say: this function can be useful, but you should definitely
test it on every platform you target.

== Version ==
This function is available in SDL 2.0.14 and newer

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryHeader]]
<!-- #See the Style Guide for instructions on editing the footer. -->
