<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- pragma disable-camelcase -->
'''DRAFT'''

= SDL_JoystickEventState =
Use this function to enable/disable joystick event polling.


== Syntax ==
```c++
int SDL_JoystickEventState(int state)
```

== Function Parameters ==
{|
|'''state'''
|can be one of SDL_QUERY, SDL_ENABLE or SDL_IGNORE
|}
<span style="color: green;">Confused - seems like '''state''' should be an integer but these are not integers.  Since RV is also an integer I'm not sure where this info belongs.  Is this an error?  Should this be somehow liked to [[SDL_EventState]]()?</span>

== Return Value ==
Returns ^1 if enabled, 0 if disabled^, or a negative error code on failure; call [[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

*<br/>If '''state''' is SDL_QUERY then the current state is returned, otherwise the new processing state is returned. <br/>*

== Code Examples ==
```c++
You can add your code example here
```

== Remarks ==
*<br/>This function is used to enable or disable joystick event processing. <br/>*

If joystick events are disabled, you must call [[SDL_JoystickUpdate]]() yourself ,,and,, ^to manually?^ check the state of the joystick when you want joystick information.

*<br/>Note: Joystick event handling is preferred.

Note: Even if joystick event processing is enabled, individual joysticks must be opened before they generate events.

Warning: Calling this function may delete all events currently in SDL's event queue. <br/>*

== Related Functions ==

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryJoystick]]
