
== Draft ==

'''THIS PAGE IS A WORK IN PROGRESS''' ... Please make edits to this page to improve it!



<!-- #*^*^*^*^*See https://wiki.libsdl.org/SGFunctions for details on editing this page*^*^*^*^* -->
= SDL_GetDisplayUsableBounds =

Get the usable desktop area represented by a display.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
int SDL_GetDisplayUsableBounds(int displayIndex, SDL_Rect * rect);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''displayIndex'''
|the index of the display to query the usable bounds from
|-
|'''rect'''
|the [[SDL_Rect]] structure filled in with the display bounds
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns 0 on success or a negative error code on failure; call
[[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.



== Remarks ==

The primary display (<code>displayIndex</code> zero) is always located at
0,0.

This is the same area as [[SDL_GetDisplayBounds]]() reports, but with
portions reserved by the system removed. For example, on Apple's macOS,
this subtracts the area occupied by the menu bar and dock.

Setting a window to be fullscreen generally bypasses these unusable areas,
so these are good guidelines for the maximum space available to a
non-fullscreen window.

The parameter <code>rect</code> is ignored if it is NULL.

This function also returns -1 if the parameter <code>displayIndex</code> is
out of range.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 2.0.5.



== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_GetDisplayBounds]]
:[[SDL_GetNumVideoDisplays]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryVideo]], [[CategoryDraft]]
<!-- #See the Style Guide for instructions on editing the footer. -->


