= SDL_CreateRGBSurfaceFrom =

Allocate a new RGB surface with existing pixel data.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
SDL_Surface* SDL_CreateRGBSurfaceFrom(void *pixels,
                                      int width,
                                      int height,
                                      int depth,
                                      int pitch,
                                      Uint32 Rmask,
                                      Uint32 Gmask,
                                      Uint32 Bmask,
                                      Uint32 Amask);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''pixels'''
|a pointer to existing pixel data
|-
|'''width'''
|the width of the surface
|-
|'''height'''
|the height of the surface
|-
|'''depth'''
|the depth of the surface in bits
|-
|'''pitch'''
|the pitch of the surface in bytes
|-
|'''Rmask'''
|the red mask for the pixels
|-
|'''Gmask'''
|the green mask for the pixels
|-
|'''Bmask'''
|the blue mask for the pixels
|-
|'''Amask'''
|the alpha mask for the pixels
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns the new SDL_Surface structure that is created or NULL if it fails;
call [[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.



== Remarks ==

This function operates mostly like [[SDL_CreateRGBSurface]](), except it
does not allocate memory for the pixel data, instead the caller provides an
existing buffer of data for the surface to use.

No copy is made of the pixel data. Pixel data is not managed automatically;
you must free the surface before you free the pixel data.

== Code Examples ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c++'>
// This example shows how to create a SDL_Surface* with the data loaded from an image
// file with the stb_image.h library (https://github.com/nothings/stb/)

// the color format you request stb_image to output,
// use STBI_rgb if you don't want/need the alpha channel
int req_format = STBI_rgb_alpha;
int width, height, orig_format;
unsigned char* data = stbi_load("./test.png", &width, &height, &orig_format, req_format);
if(data == NULL) {
  SDL_Log("Loading image failed: %s", stbi_failure_reason());
  exit(1);
}

// Set up the pixel format color masks for RGB(A) byte arrays.
// Only STBI_rgb (3) and STBI_rgb_alpha (4) are supported here!
Uint32 rmask, gmask, bmask, amask;
#if SDL_BYTEORDER == SDL_BIG_ENDIAN
  int shift = (req_format == STBI_rgb) ? 8 : 0;
  rmask = 0xff000000 >> shift;
  gmask = 0x00ff0000 >> shift;
  bmask = 0x0000ff00 >> shift;
  amask = 0x000000ff >> shift;
#else // little endian, like x86
  rmask = 0x000000ff;
  gmask = 0x0000ff00;
  bmask = 0x00ff0000;
  amask = (req_format == STBI_rgb) ? 0 : 0xff000000;
#endif

int depth, pitch;
if (req_format == STBI_rgb) {
  depth = 24;
  pitch = 3*width; // 3 bytes per pixel * pixels per row
} else { // STBI_rgb_alpha (RGBA)
  depth = 32;
  pitch = 4*width;
}

SDL_Surface* surf = SDL_CreateRGBSurfaceFrom((void*)data, width, height, depth, pitch,
                                             rmask, gmask, bmask, amask);

if (surf == NULL) {
  SDL_Log("Creating surface failed: %s", SDL_GetError());
  stbi_image_free(data);
  exit(1);
}

// ... do something useful with the surface ...
// ...

// when you don't need the surface anymore, free it..
SDL_FreeSurface(surf);
// .. *and* the data used by the surface!
stbi_image_free(data);
</syntaxhighlight>


== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_CreateRGBSurface]]
:[[SDL_CreateRGBSurfaceWithFormat]]
:[[SDL_FreeSurface]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategorySurface]]


