====== (This is the documentation for SDL3, which is under heavy development and the API is changing! SDL2 is the current stable version!) ======

== Draft ==

'''THIS PAGE IS A WORK IN PROGRESS''' ... Please make edits to this page to improve it!


<!-- #*^*^*^*^*See https://wiki.libsdl.org/SGFunctions for details on editing this page*^*^*^*^* -->
= SDL_RenderSetLogicalSize =

Set a device independent resolution for rendering.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
int SDL_RenderSetLogicalSize(SDL_Renderer * renderer, int w, int h);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''renderer'''
|the renderer for which resolution should be set
|-
|'''w'''
|the width of the logical resolution
|-
|'''h'''
|the height of the logical resolution
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns 0 on success or a negative error code on failure; call
[[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

== Remarks ==

This function uses the viewport and scaling functionality to allow a fixed
logical resolution for rendering, regardless of the actual output
resolution. If the actual output resolution doesn't have the same aspect
ratio the output rendering will be centered within the output display.

If the output display is a window, mouse and touch events in the window
will be filtered and scaled so they seem to arrive within the logical
resolution. The [[SDL_HINT_MOUSE_RELATIVE_SCALING]] hint controls whether
relative motion events are also scaled.

If this function results in scaling or subpixel drawing by the rendering
backend, it will be handled using the appropriate quality hints.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 2.0.0.

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_RenderGetLogicalSize]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryRender]], [[CategoryDraft]]


