<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- pragma camelcase off -->

= SDL_DetachThread =
Use this function to let a thread clean up on exit without intervention.


== Syntax ==
```c++
void SDL_DetachThread(SDL_Thread* thread)
```
== Function Parameters ==
{|
|'''thread''' 
|the SDL_Thread pointer that was returned from the [[SDL_CreateThread]]() call that started this thread
|}

== Code Examples ==
```c++
extern int TestThread(void *ptr);
SDL_Thread *thread = SDL_CreateThread(TestThread, "TestThread", (void *)NULL);
SDL_DetachThread(thread);  /* will go away on its own upon completion. */
```

== Remarks ==

A thread may be "detached" to signify that it should not remain until another thread has called [[SDL_WaitThread]]() on it. Detaching a thread is useful for long-running threads that nothing needs to synchronize with or further manage. When a detached thread is done, it simply goes away.

There is no way to recover the return code of a detached thread. If you need this, don't detach the thread and instead use [[SDL_WaitThread]]().

Once a thread is detached, you should usually assume the SDL_Thread isn't safe to reference again, as it will become invalid immediately upon the detached thread's exit, instead of remaining until someone has called [[SDL_WaitThread]]() to finally clean it up. As such, don't detach the same thread more than once.

If a thread has already exited when passed to SDL_DetachThread(), it will stop waiting for a call to [[SDL_WaitThread]]() and clean up immediately. It is not safe to detach a thread that might be used with [[SDL_WaitThread]]().

You may not call [[SDL_WaitThread]]() on a thread that has been detached. Use either that function or this one, but not both, or behavior is undefined.

It is safe to pass NULL to this function; it is a no-op.


== Related Functions ==
: [[SDL_CreateThread]]
: [[SDL_WaitThread]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryThread]]
