= SDL_SIMDAlloc =

Allocate memory in a SIMD-friendly way.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
void * SDL_SIMDAlloc(const size_t len);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''len'''
|The length, in bytes, of the block to allocate. The actual allocated block might be larger due to padding, etc.
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns a pointer to thenewly-allocated block, NULL if out of memory.

== Remarks ==

This will allocate a block of memory that is suitable for use with SIMD
instructions. Specifically, it will be properly aligned and padded for the
system's supported vector instructions.

The memory returned will be padded such that it is safe to read or write an
incomplete vector at the end of the memory block. This can be useful so you
don't have to drop back to a scalar fallback at the end of your SIMD
processing loop to deal with the final elements without overflowing the
allocated buffer.

You must free this memory with [[SDL_FreeSIMD]](), not free() or
[[SDL_free]]() or delete[], etc.

Note that SDL will only deal with SIMD instruction sets it is aware of; for
example, SDL 2.0.8 knows that SSE wants 16-byte vectors ([[SDL_HasSSE]]()),
and AVX2 wants 32 bytes ([[SDL_HasAVX2]]()), but doesn't know that AVX-512
wants 64. To be clear: if you can't decide to use an instruction set with
an [[SDL_Has]]*() function, don't use that instruction set with memory
allocated through here.

[[SDL_AllocSIMD]](0) will return a non-NULL pointer, assuming the system
isn't out of memory, but you are not allowed to dereference it (because you
only own zero bytes of that buffer).

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_SIMDAlignment]]
:[[SDL_SIMDRealloc]]
:[[SDL_SIMDFree]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]]


