<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- pragma disable-camelcase -->
= SDL_GL_CreateContext =
Use this function to create an OpenGL context for use with an OpenGL window, and make it current.


== Syntax ==
```c++
SDL_GLContext SDL_GL_CreateContext(SDL_Window* window)
```
== Function Parameters ==
{|
|'''window''' 
|the window to associate with the context 
|}


== Return Value ==
Returns the OpenGL context associated with '''window''' or NULL on error; call [[SDL_GetError]]() for more details.

== Code Examples ==
```c++
#include <SDL2/SDL.h>
#include <SDL2/SDL_opengl.h>
int main(int argc, char* argv[]){

  SDL_Init(SDL_INIT_VIDEO); // Init SDL2

  // Create a window. Window mode MUST include SDL_WINDOW_OPENGL for use with OpenGL.
  SDL_Window *window = SDL_CreateWindow(
    "SDL2/OpenGL Demo", SDL_WINDOWPOS_UNDEFINED, SDL_WINDOWPOS_UNDEFINED, 640, 480, SDL_WINDOW_OPENGL|SDL_WINDOW_RESIZABLE
  );

  // Create an OpenGL context associated with the window.
  SDL_GLContext GLContext = SDL_GL_CreateContext(window);
  if(!GLContext){
    // ... handle error
  }

  // Now, regular OpenGL functions ...
  glMatrixMode(GL_PROJECTION|GL_MODELVIEW);
  glLoadIdentity();
  glOrtho(-200,200,200,-200,0,1);

  // ... can be used alongside SDL2.
  SDL_Event e;
  while(e.type!=SDL_QUIT){  // Enter main loop.

    SDL_PollEvent(&e);      // Check for events.

    glClearColor(0,0,0,1);          // Draw with OpenGL.
    glClear(GL_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT);
    glRotatef(1.0,0.0,0.0,1.0);
    glBegin(GL_LINE_LOOP);
      glColor3f(1.0,0.0,0.0);   glVertex2f(   0,100);
      glColor3f(0.0,1.0,0.0);   glVertex2f( 100,-50);
      glColor3f(1.0,0.0,1.0);   glVertex2f(-100,-50);
    glEnd();


    // Swap the window/buffer to display the result.
    SDL_GL_SwapWindow(window);
    // Pause briefly before moving on to the next cycle.
    SDL_Delay(10);

  }


  // Once finished with OpenGL functions, the SDL_GLContext can be deleted.
  SDL_GL_DeleteContext(GLContext);

  // Close the window, clean-up and exit the program.
  SDL_DestroyWindow(window);
  SDL_Quit();
  return 0;

}
```
== Remarks ==
Windows users new to OpenGL should note that, for historical reasons, GL functions added after OpenGL version 1.1 are not available by default. Those functions must be loaded at run-time, either with an OpenGL extension-handling library or with [[SDL_GL_GetProcAddress]]() and its related functions.

== Related Functions ==
: [[SDL_GL_DeleteContext]]
: [[SDL_GL_MakeCurrent]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], CategoryVideo
