====== (This is the documentation for SDL3, which is under heavy development and the API is changing! SDL2 is the current stable version!) ======

== Draft ==

'''THIS PAGE IS A WORK IN PROGRESS''' ... Please make edits to this page to improve it!
= SDL_JoystickGetAxis =

Get the current state of an axis control on a joystick.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
Sint16 SDL_JoystickGetAxis(SDL_Joystick *joystick,
                           int axis);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''joystick'''
|an [[SDL_Joystick]] structure containing joystick information
|-
|'''axis'''
|the axis to query; the axis indices start at index 0
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns a 16-bit signed integer representing the current position of the
axis or 0 on failure; call [[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

== Remarks ==

SDL makes no promises about what part of the joystick any given axis refers
to. Your game should have some sort of configuration UI to let users
specify what each axis should be bound to. Alternately, SDL's higher-level
Game Controller API makes a great effort to apply order to this lower-level
interface, so you know that a specific axis is the "left thumb stick," etc.

The value returned by [[SDL_JoystickGetAxis]]() is a signed integer (-32768
to 32767) representing the current position of the axis. It may be
necessary to impose certain tolerances on these values to account for
jitter.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 2.0.0.

== Code Examples ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c++'>
extern SDL_Joystick* joy1;
Sint16 x_move, y_move;

x_move = SDL_JoystickGetAxis(joy1, 0);
y_move = SDL_JoystickGetAxis(joy1, 1);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_JoystickNumAxes]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryJoystick]], [[CategoryDraft]]


