= SDL_RWFromFile =

Use this function to create a new [[SDL_RWops]] structure for reading from and/or writing to a named file.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
SDL_RWops* SDL_RWFromFile(const char *file,
                          const char *mode);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''file'''
|a UTF-8 string representing the filename to open
|-
|'''mode'''
|an ASCII string representing the mode to be used for opening the file.
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns a pointer to the [[SDL_RWops]] structure that is created, or NULL
on failure; call [[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

== Remarks ==

The <code>mode</code> string is treated roughly the same as in a call to
the C library's fopen(), even if SDL doesn't happen to use fopen() behind
the scenes.

Available <code>mode</code> strings:

* "r": Open a file for reading. The file must exist.
* "w": Create an empty file for writing. If a file with the same name already exists its content is erased and the file is treated as a new empty file.
* "a": Append to a file. Writing operations append data at the end of the file. The file is created if it does not exist.
* "r+": Open a file for update both reading and writing. The file must exist.
* "w+": Create an empty file for both reading and writing. If a file with the same name already exists its content is erased and the file is treated as a new empty file.
* "a+": Open a file for reading and appending. All writing operations are performed at the end of the file, protecting the previous content to be overwritten. You can reposition (fseek, rewind) the internal pointer to anywhere in the file for reading, but writing operations will move it back to the end of file. The file is created if it does not exist.

'''NOTE''': In order to open a file as a binary file, a "b" character has
to be included in the <code>mode</code> string. This additional "b"
character can either be appended at the end of the string (thus making the
following compound modes: "rb", "wb", "ab", "r+b", "w+b", "a+b") or be
inserted between the letter and the "+" sign for the mixed modes ("rb+",
"wb+", "ab+"). Additional characters may follow the sequence, although they
should have no effect. For example, "t" is sometimes appended to make
explicit the file is a text file.

This function supports Unicode filenames, but they must be encoded in UTF-8
format, regardless of the underlying operating system.

As a fallback, [[SDL_RWFromFile]]() will transparently open a matching
filename in an Android app's <code>assets</code>.

Closing the [[SDL_RWops]] will close the file handle SDL is holding
internally.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 2.0.0.

== Code Examples ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c++'>
SDL_RWops *file = SDL_RWFromFile("myimage.bmp", "rb");
SDL_Surface *image = SDL_LoadBMP_RW(file, 1); /* 1 to automatically close the RWops. */
/* Do something with image here. */
</syntaxhighlight>

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_RWclose]]
:[[SDL_RWFromConstMem]]
:[[SDL_RWFromFP]]
:[[SDL_RWFromMem]]
:[[SDL_RWread]]
:[[SDL_RWseek]]
:[[SDL_RWtell]]
:[[SDL_RWwrite]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryIO]]


