<!-- pragma section-numbers off -->
<!-- pragma disable-camelcase -->
<!-- acl All:read -->

= Style Guide: Remarks =

All [http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/SGWikiBasics#api API pages] in this wiki contain a section for remarks.  This guide provides instructions for adding your own content to the Remarks section of these pages. 

<span id="ToC"></span>

== General Guidelines ==
''The Remarks section provides additional information related to other sections on the page as well as a location for users to add comments related to real-world application of the API.''

'''Please post appropriate remarks that may benefit other users.  
* Do not post anything that you do not have permission to post publicly.
* Remarks should have adequate references to make them clear and useful.
* Please remember to keep it simple and easy to understand.
* ''<<Color2(red,Important!)>>'' The Remarks section is not a discussion board.  This is not an appropriate place to post questions, unrelated comments, or general commentary.  Only constructive information is to be posted in the Remarks section.'''
: Please use the [http://forums.libsdl.org/ forums], [http://www.libsdl.org/mailing-list.php mailing lists], ''Feedback'' form (upper right corner), or email (<<MailTo(ANTI SPAM wiki AT libsdl DOT org)>>) if you have questions or need to discuss some aspect of the API.
<br/>
<br/>
== Adding Your Remarks ==
 1. Begin by going to the page you wish to edit and selecting <<Color2(blue,Edit (Text))>> or <<Color2(blue,Edit (GUI))>> in the left column to begin editing.
  ~-Reminder: Markup info provided here is specifically for use in the Text editor but should work in both.-~
 1. Scroll down in the edit window to the section that begins with ```== Remarks ==```.  Add your content below this heading following the conventions in this style guide.
 1. Find information relevant to your content in the style guide sections [[#formatting|below]] and apply the appropriate formatting as you create your content.
 1. Preview your work as you go by clicking <<Color2(blue,Preview)>> in the left column.  
 1. Save your work by clicking <<Color2(blue,Save Changes)>> in the left column after you are satisfied with your content and have filled in the Comment field under the editing box.  
For additional assistance with editing, saving, or wiki-appropriate markup see the [http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/SGWikiBasics Wiki Basics] Style Guide.
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<span id="formatting"></span>
== Formatting Your Remarks ==

=== Location ===
{|
|<( |2 30%>''If'' your remark is the __first on the page__
|''Action'': Replace the following text and markup with your remarks:<br/>```''You can add useful comments here''```
|-
|''Example'': [[SDL_StopTextInput]]()<br/>~-(Remarks were empty at the time this was selected.-~)
|-
|<( |3>''If'' there are __existing remarks__ on the page
|''Action'': Add your remarks to the end of the Remarks section, or to a related grouping if there are existing remarks covering the same topic.
|-
|<<Color2(red,''Important!'')>> Do not change or remove any of the existing content.
|-
|''Example'': [[SDL_MixAudio]]()
|}

<span id="params"></span>
=== Referencing Function Parameters ===
When your remark includes a reference to a function parameter:
{|
|<( |3 30%>''If'' you are referencing a parameter __on the same page__
|''Action'': Use '''bold''' wherever the name is used in the remark.
|-
|''Markup'':  Use 3 apostrophes on either side of the text for bold.<br/>```'''parameter'''``` = '''parameter'''
|-
|''Example'': [[SDL_ConvertAudio]]()
|-
|<( |3>''If'' you are referencing a parameter __from another page__
|''Action'': Use <code>monospace</code> wherever the name is used in the remark.
|-
|''Markup'':  Use a single backtick on either side of the text for monospace.<br/>```<code>member</code>``` = <code>member</code>
|-
|''Example'': [[SDL_OpenAudio]]()
|}


=== Referencing Structure Data Fields ===
''If'' your remark includes a reference to a structure data field:

''Action'': Use the same formatting as for [[#params|function parameters]] above.

''Example'': [[SDL_AudioSpec]]


=== Referencing Enumeration Values ===
''If'' your remark includes a reference to an enumeration value:

''Action'': No special formatting is required since these are generally already in ALL CAPS.

''Example'': [[SDL_GLattr]]

==== Using an Include ====
''If'' your remark uses an [http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/SGWikiBasics#Includes Include] to copy content from another page into the Remarks section, see the guidelines below.

{|
|<( 30%>''If'' your Include is copying __stand-alone content__ into the Remarks
|''Action'': A tie-in statement is not likely necessary.  In that case, simply follow the instructions for creating an Include in [http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/SGWikiBasics#Includes Wiki Basics]
|-
|<( |2 30%>''If'' your Include is used to copy __values from a related enumeration__ that was mentioned in the Function Parameters section (''most common use'')
|''Action'': See the following table for tie-in text options to precede the [http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/SGWikiBasics#Includes Include].
|-
|''Note'': In these examples, replace <code><parameter></code> with the relevant parameter name and replace <code><enumeration></code> with the name of the enumeration or other page being referenced.
|-
|<( 30%>''If'' your Include is for __some other purpose__
|''Action'': Please apply the closest appropriate match from the other two options (above) with minimal modifications, or contact us if you are unsure what to do.
|}

''Action'': If required (see table above), select from the following introductory phrases to explain the relationship of the included material to the page:

{|
|<( |2 30%>''If'' the Include contains a list from which __only one option__ may be selected
|''Action'': Place the following phrase on the line above the Include markup<br/><code>'''<parameter>'''may</code> <code>be</code> <code>one</code> <code>of</code> <code>the</code> <code>following:</code>
|-
|''Example'': [[SDL_CreateTexture]](), [[SDL_SetThreadPriority]]()
|-
|<( |2 30%>''If'' the Include contains a list from which __more than one option__ may be selected
|''Action'': Place the following phrase on the line above the Include markup<br/><code>'''<parameter>''' may be</code> <code>any</code> <code>of</code> <code>the</code> <code>following</code> <code>OR'd</code> <code>together:</code>
|-
|''Example'': [[SDL_CreateRenderer]]()
|-
|<( |2 30%>''If'' the Include contains a list from which __only one value will be used to fill a parameter__
|''Action'': Place the following phrase on the line above the Include markup<br/><code>'''parameter''' will</code> <code>be filled</code> <code>in</code> <code>with</code> <code>one</code> <code>of</code> <code>the</code> <code>following:</code>
|-
|''Example'': [[SDL_GetTextureBlendMode]]()
|-
|<( |2 30%>''If'' the Include contains a list from which __more than one option may be selected or the value may be 0__
|''Action'': Place the following phrase on the line above the Include markup<br/><code>'''parameter''' may be</code> <code>0 or a</code> <code>mask</code> <code>of</code> <code>any</code> <code>of</code> <code>the</code> <code>following</code> <code>SDL_<enumeration></code> <code>values</code> <code>OR'd</code> <code>together:</code>
|-
|''Example'': [[SDL_RendererInfo]]
|-
|<( |2 30%>''If'' the Include contains a list from which __one or more than one__ option may be selected
|''Action'': Place the following phrase on the line above the Include markup<br/><code>'''parameter''' may be <option that</code> <code>cannot be OR'd</code> <code>(ie: SDL_x_NONE)> or</code> <code>a mask of any</code> <code>of the other</code> <code>SDL_<enumeration></code> <code>values</code> <code>OR'd together:</code>
|-
|''Example'': [[SDL_RendererInfo]], [[SDL_SetRenderDrawBlendMode]]()
|}



=== Referencing Other API Components ===
''If'' your remark includes a reference to an SDL function, enumeration, or structure:

''Action'': Create a hyperlink to its page.
: ~-Although the wiki will automatically create links in many cases, it does not recognize the SDL names correctly so you must manually hyperlink them.-~<br/>

''Markup'':  Use two brackets surrounding the page name (```[[ ]]```) to create a link.
: ~-Using the full page address is not necessary.  The page name portion (end of address) is sufficient, but must be exact.-~

{|
|<( |2 30%>''If'' you reference a __function__
|''Action'': Include open and closed parentheses outside of the hyperlink markup.
|-
|''Markup'':  ```[[SDL_Function]]()``` = [[SDL_Function]]()
|-
|<( |2>''If'' you reference a __structure__ or __enumeration__
|''Action'': Do not use parentheses.
|-
|''Markup'':  ```[[SDL_Enumeration/Structure]]``` = [[SDL_Enumeration/Structure]]
|-
|
|<(>''Example'': [[SDL_SetTextureScaleMode]]()
|}


~-[[#ToC|Return to Table of Contents]]-~


----
== Resources ==

Our goal is to create accurate, consistent, helpful, user-friendly documentation.  We appreciate your efforts to make your additions fit into the existing framework and retain the same look and feel as much 
as possible.

If you have questions that aren't addressed here:
 a. Search for another page that contains something similar to what you want to do and copy all the basics as much as applicable.  
 a. Check the other SDL [http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/Contributing#guides Style Guides].
 a. Post a question to [http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/Contributing#form Feedback] and include a way to contact you.
 a. Post a question to the [http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/Contributing#list Mailing List]
 a. Send a comment or question to <<MailTo(ANTI SPAM wiki AT libsdl DOT org)>> for clarification.

If you have suggestions for changes or additions to this document or any other portion of the wiki please don't hesitate to contact us with your thoughts.  We are happy to have the participation!

------
== Disclaimer ==
```#!wiki note
All content modifications are subject to review for consistency and quality.  We reserve the right to remove or modify any content added to this wiki at any time.  You may direct questions or concerns to 
<<MailTo(ANTI SPAM wiki AT libsdl DOT org)>>.
```
