= SDL Tutorials =
There are a number of SDL tutorials available from different sources.


== Multi-Subject ==

* [http://twinklebeardev.blogspot.com/p/sdl-20-tutorial-index.html TwinklebearDev]
: Tutorials covering a wide variety of introductory topics with SDL 2.0

* [http://www.sdltutorials.com/ SDLTutorials.com]
: Wow! A whole website about SDL tutorials, including SDL basics, events, animation, entities, maps and other topics

== Setup ==
* [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wWGtuc5uqF4]
: A video tutorial showing how to setup SDL 2.0 with codeblocks mingw32 compiler

* [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wWGtuc5uqF4]
: A video tutorial showing how to setup SDL 2.0 with codeblocks mingw32 compiler with OpenGL 3.0+ & compiling GLEW libraries

== Android ==

* [http://www.dinomage.com/2013/01/howto-sdl-on-android/]
: An example of setting up SDL on Android

== Video ==

* [http://slouken.blogspot.com/2011/02/streaming-textures-with-sdl-13.html Streaming textures with SDL 2.0]
: A quick guide to streaming textures.

* [http://rainwarrior.ca/dragon/sdl_glsl.html Using GLSL with SDL]
: A tutorial on enabling and using GLSL extensions with SDL.
: Check out http://hg.libsdl.org/SDL/file/default/test/testshader.c also.

=== OpenGL ===
* [http://www.g-truc.net/post-0204.html OpenGL 3 Samples Pack]
: Using SDL 2.0 beta with OpenGL 3

* [http://www.opengl.org/wiki/Tutorial1:_Creating_a_Cross_Platform_OpenGL_3.2_Context_in_SDL_(C_/_SDL) OpenGL 3.2 and SDL]
: Creating a Cross Platform OpenGL 3.2 Context in SDL

* [http://iphonesdkdev.blogspot.com/2009/04/opengl-es-for-iphone-simple-tutorial.html OpenGL ES for iPhone : A Simple Tutorial]
: A brief introduction to OpenGL ES

== Haptic ==

* [http://bobbens.dyndns.org/journal/2010/sdl_haptic/ The SDL 2.0 Haptic Interface]
: Covers the basics of how to create and playback simple force feedback effects with SDL.

== Input ==

* [[Tutorials/TextInput|Text Input]]
: Using SDL for text inputs with specific consideration for international users.

== Threads ==

* [http://ansuz.sooke.bc.ca/software/sdl-condvars.php Condition variables in SDL]
: A good discussion of condition variables, in computer science rather than gaming context. Some mention of mutex and semaphore use.

== SDL 1.2 ==
: [http://wiki.libsdl.org/moin.cgi/SDL1.2Tutorials SDL 1.2 Tutorials]
