====== (This function is part of SDL_ttf, a separate library from SDL.) ======
= TTF_RenderText_LCD =

Render Latin1 text at LCD subpixel quality to a new ARGB surface.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
SDL_Surface * TTF_RenderText_LCD(TTF_Font *font,
                const char *text, SDL_Color fg, SDL_Color bg);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''font'''
|the font to render with.
|-
|'''text'''
|text to render, in Latin1 encoding.
|-
|'''fg'''
|the foreground color for the text.
|-
|'''bg'''
|the background color for the text.
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns a new 32-bit, ARGB surface, or NULL if there was an error.

== Remarks ==

This function will allocate a new 32-bit, ARGB surface, and render
alpha-blended text using FreeType's LCD subpixel rendering. This function
returns the new surface, or NULL if there was an error.

This will not word-wrap the string; you'll get a surface with a single line
of text, as long as the string requires. You can use
[[TTF_RenderText_LCD_Wrapped]]() instead if you need to wrap the output to
multiple lines.

This will not wrap on newline characters.

You almost certainly want [[TTF_RenderUTF8_LCD]]() unless you're sure you
have a 1-byte Latin1 encoding. US ASCII characters will work with either
function, but most other Unicode characters packed into a <code>const char
*</code> will need UTF-8.

You can render at other quality levels with [[TTF_RenderText_Solid]],
[[TTF_RenderText_Shaded]], and [[TTF_RenderText_Blended]].

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL_ttf 2.19.2.

== Related Functions ==

:[[TTF_RenderUTF8_LCD]]
:[[TTF_RenderUNICODE_LCD]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]]


