= FAQs: General =


== What is Simple DirectMedia Layer? ==
Very simply, Simple DirectMedia Layer, or SDL for short, is a library that allows you low level access to a video framebuffer, audio output, mouse, keyboard, and joysticks across a wide variety of operating systems.

== What platforms are supported? ==
The current version supports Windows XP and newer, MacOS X 10.5+, Linux 2.6+, iOS 5.1.1+, and Android 4.1+.  SDL includes code for other operating systems but they are not officially supported.  See <!-- http://hg.libsdl.org/SDL/file/default/docs/README-platforms.md --> [[Installation|the page about Installation]] for the most recent list.

== What is the latest version? ==
The latest stable version is 2.0. You can always get the very latest bleeding edge Git snapshot, which may be broken at any given time, from [https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL the GitHub project page].

== Where can I get it? ==
[https://www.libsdl.org/ www.libsdl.org]

== Where do I send questions / feedback? ==
You can send questions and feedback through the SDL [https://discourse.libsdl.org/ forums/mailing list] or using the ''Feedback'' link (bottom of the page).

== Where do I send bug reports / patches? ==
You can submit bug reports to [https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/issues SDL's GitHub issue tracker] and, if you like, [https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/pulls send patches as GitHub pull requests].

== Is there a mailing list? ==
We run a Discourse server [https://discourse.libsdl.org/ here], which can be put in "Mailing List Mode," where you create an account on the website, flip a switch in the preferences, and then can interact exclusively through email thereafter.

== Is there an IRC channel? ==
Yes, you can find people hanging out on the IRC server at irc.libera.chat on the channel #SDL

== Is there a Discord server? ==
Yes, [https://discordapp.com/invite/F6mPUgc go here]!

== Is there an official logo? ==
Yes, the official SDL logo was created by Arne Claus, and is available here: https://www.libsdl.org/media/SDL_logo_b.png Several community contributed logo ideas are also available at that URL. You are welcome to use any of them, as well as any artwork on the SDL website, to represent Simple DirectMedia Layer.

== Is this wiki available offline? ==
Yes, you can click the [https://wiki.libsdl.org/static_files/offline/sdlwiki.zip "offline html"] link at the bottom of any page to get a zipfile archive of the entire wiki in HTML format. If you like Unix manpages, we generate manpages from each API function's wiki page. The latest archives for each supported project, as zipfiles, are always [https://wiki.libsdl.org/static_files/offline/manpages/ here].

<!--
== I have a project that uses SDL, how do I add it to the SDL website? ==
If you have a project that you feel is ready for the general public, you can add it to the SDL website:

 1. Create an account under the Site Actions menu on the SDL website (http://www.libsdl.org/index.php)
 1. Log in from the Site Actions menu with your account
 1. Go to the Download page that matches your project type (Games, Applications, etc.)
 1. Click on the "submit" button at the bottom of the page
 1. Fill in the form and click Submit at the bottom
-->