====== (This is the legacy documentation for stable SDL2, the current stable version; [https://wiki.libsdl.org/SDL3/ SDL3] is the current development version.) ======

== Draft ==

'''THIS PAGE IS A WORK IN PROGRESS''' ... Please make edits to this page to improve it!


<!-- #*^*^*^*^*See https://wiki.libsdl.org/SGEnumerations for details on editing this page*^*^*^*^* -->
= SDL_HINT_WINRT_PRIVACY_POLICY_URL =

A URL to a WinRT app's privacy policy

== Header File ==

Defined in [SDL_hints.h](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/blob/SDL2/include/SDL_hints.h)

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
#define SDL_HINT_WINRT_PRIVACY_POLICY_URL "SDL_WINRT_PRIVACY_POLICY_URL"</syntaxhighlight>

== Remarks ==

All network-enabled WinRT apps must make a privacy policy available to its
users. On Windows 8, 8.1, and RT, Microsoft mandates that this policy be be
available in the Windows Settings charm, as accessed from within the app.
SDL provides code to add a URL-based link there, which can point to the
app's privacy policy.

To setup a URL to an app's privacy policy, set
[[SDL_HINT_WINRT_PRIVACY_POLICY_URL]] before calling any [[SDL_Init]]()
functions. The contents of the hint should be a valid URL. For example,
"http://www.example.com".

The default value is "", which will prevent SDL from adding a privacy
policy link to the Settings charm. This hint should only be set during app
init.

The label text of an app's "Privacy Policy" link may be customized via
another hint, [[SDL_HINT_WINRT_PRIVACY_POLICY_LABEL]].

Please note that on Windows Phone, Microsoft does not provide standard UI
for displaying a privacy policy link, and as such,
[[SDL_HINT_WINRT_PRIVACY_POLICY_URL]] will not get used on that platform.
Network-enabled phone apps should display their privacy policy through some
other, in-app means.

== Default ==

By default this hint is not set.

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryAPIMacro]], [[CategoryDefine]], [[CategoryHints]], [[CategoryDraft]]
<!-- #See the Style Guide for instructions on editing the footer. -->


