====== (This is the legacy documentation for stable SDL2, the current stable version; [https://wiki.libsdl.org/SDL3/ SDL3] is the current development version.) ======

== Draft ==

'''THIS PAGE IS A WORK IN PROGRESS''' ... Please make edits to this page to improve it!


<!-- #*^*^*^*^*See https://wiki.libsdl.org/SGEnumerations for details on editing this page*^*^*^*^* -->
= SDL_HINT_BMP_SAVE_LEGACY_FORMAT =

Prevent SDL from using version 4 of the bitmap header when saving BMPs.

== Header File ==

Defined in [SDL_hints.h](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/blob/SDL2/include/SDL_hints.h), but apps should _only_ `#include "SDL.h"`!

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
#define SDL_HINT_BMP_SAVE_LEGACY_FORMAT "SDL_BMP_SAVE_LEGACY_FORMAT"</syntaxhighlight>

== Remarks ==

The bitmap header version 4 is required for proper alpha channel support
and SDL will use it when required. Should this not be desired, this hint
can force the use of the 40 byte header version which is supported
everywhere.

The variable can be set to the following values: "0" - Surfaces with a
colorkey or an alpha channel are saved to a 32-bit BMP file with an alpha
mask. SDL will use the bitmap header version 4 and set the alpha mask
accordingly. "1" - Surfaces with a colorkey or an alpha channel are saved
to a 32-bit BMP file without an alpha mask. The alpha channel data will be
in the file, but applications are going to ignore it.

The default value is "0".

== Default ==

By default SDL will use version 4 of the bitmap header when saving BMPs.

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryAPIMacro]], [[CategoryDefine]], [[CategoryHints]], [[CategoryDraft]]


