====== (This is the legacy documentation for stable SDL2, the current stable version; [https://wiki.libsdl.org/SDL3/ SDL3] is the current development version.) ======
= SDL_SensorType =

The different sensors defined by SDL.

== Header File ==

Defined in [SDL_sensor.h](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/blob/SDL2/include/SDL_sensor.h)

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
typedef enum SDL_SensorType
{
    SDL_SENSOR_INVALID = -1,    /**< Returned for an invalid sensor */
    SDL_SENSOR_UNKNOWN,         /**< Unknown sensor type */
    SDL_SENSOR_ACCEL,           /**< Accelerometer */
    SDL_SENSOR_GYRO,            /**< Gyroscope */
    SDL_SENSOR_ACCEL_L,         /**< Accelerometer for left Joy-Con controller and Wii nunchuk */
    SDL_SENSOR_GYRO_L,          /**< Gyroscope for left Joy-Con controller */
    SDL_SENSOR_ACCEL_R,         /**< Accelerometer for right Joy-Con controller */
    SDL_SENSOR_GYRO_R           /**< Gyroscope for right Joy-Con controller */
} SDL_SensorType;</syntaxhighlight>

== Remarks ==

Additional sensors may be available, using platform dependent semantics.

Here are the additional Android sensors:

https://developer.android.com/reference/android/hardware/SensorEvent.html#values

Accelerometer sensor notes:

The accelerometer returns the current acceleration in SI meters per second
squared. This measurement includes the force of gravity, so a device at
rest will have an value of [[SDL_STANDARD_GRAVITY]] away from the center of
the earth, which is a positive Y value.

* <code>values[0]</code>: Acceleration on the x axis
* <code>values[1]</code>: Acceleration on the y axis
* <code>values[2]</code>: Acceleration on the z axis

For phones and tablets held in natural orientation and game controllers
held in front of you, the axes are defined as follows:

* -X ... +X : left ... right
* -Y ... +Y : bottom ... top
* -Z ... +Z : farther ... closer

The accelerometer axis data is not changed when the device is rotated.

Gyroscope sensor notes:

The gyroscope returns the current rate of rotation in radians per second.
The rotation is positive in the counter-clockwise direction. That is, an
observer looking from a positive location on one of the axes would see
positive rotation on that axis when it appeared to be rotating
counter-clockwise.

* <code>values[0]</code>: Angular speed around the x axis (pitch)
* <code>values[1]</code>: Angular speed around the y axis (yaw)
* <code>values[2]</code>: Angular speed around the z axis (roll)

For phones and tablets held in natural orientation and game controllers
held in front of you, the axes are defined as follows:

* -X ... +X : left ... right
* -Y ... +Y : bottom ... top
* -Z ... +Z : farther ... closer

The gyroscope axis data is not changed when the device is rotated.

== See Also ==

:[[SDL_GetDisplayOrientation]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryAPIEnum]], [[CategorySensor]], [[CategoryAPIEnum]], 

