====== (This is the legacy documentation for stable SDL2, the current stable version; SDL3 is the current development version.) ======
= SDL_ClearQueuedAudio =

Drop any queued audio data waiting to be sent to the hardware.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
void SDL_ClearQueuedAudio(SDL_AudioDeviceID dev);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''dev'''
|the device ID of which to clear the audio queue
|}

== Remarks ==

Immediately after this call, [[SDL_GetQueuedAudioSize]]() will return 0.
For output devices, the hardware will start playing silence if more audio
isn't queued. For capture devices, the hardware will start filling the
empty queue with new data if the capture device isn't paused.

This will not prevent playback of queued audio that's already been sent to
the hardware, as we can not undo that, so expect there to be some fraction
of a second of audio that might still be heard. This can be useful if you
want to, say, drop any pending music or any unprocessed microphone input
during a level change in your game.

You may not queue or dequeue audio on a device that is using an
application-supplied callback; calling this function on such a device
always returns 0. You have to use the audio callback or queue audio, but
not both.

You should not call [[SDL_LockAudio]]() on the device before clearing the
queue; SDL handles locking internally for this function.

This function always succeeds and thus returns void.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 2.0.4.

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_GetQueuedAudioSize]]
:[[SDL_QueueAudio]]
:[[SDL_DequeueAudio]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]]


