<!-- acl All:read -->

= Style Guide: New Pages =

This guide provides instructions for adding new pages to this wiki. 

'''Most of the pages in the SDL API already exist and will only require editing as time goes on.  See the other [[Contributing#guides|Style Guides]] for details on editing existing pages.  But, if you encounter a component of the API that should have a page in this wiki but does not, this guide is your starting point.'''


<span id="ToC"></span>

== General Guidelines ==
''This wiki contains the following page types:''
 ||[[CategoryAPI|API pages]]||pages describing the various Hints, Enumerations, Structures, and Functions of SDL||
 ||[[APIByCategory|Category pages]]||pages that list all parts of the API related to a specific topic, or category, and may contain some introductory discussion about the topic||
 ||[[Tutorials]]||pages that help people use SDL||
 ||Administrative pages||these include most of the other pages linked in the left sidebar, such as the [[FrontPage]], [[Introduction]], [[Support]], and [[Contributing]] pages||

''<span color="red">Important!</span>'' '''It is highly unlikely that you will be creating new Administrative pages.'''  If you feel that something of this nature is warranted, or if you feel an Administrative page needs editing, please contact us at <<MailTo(ANTI SPAM wiki AT libsdl DOT org)>> or post about it in a [Contributing#list|Mailing List]] or [[http://forums.libsdl.org/ Forum].  

''Action - Tutorials'': '''Please see the [[SGTutorials|Tutorials Style Guide]] if you wish to create a new Tutorial page.'''

''Action - Other'': At present, all of the categories (headers) that will have a Category page (see a list [[SGFunctions#CategoryTable|here]]) and all of the Hints, Enumerations, Structures, and Functions that will have an API page in this wiki have been created.  However, since SDL is a dynamic entity, should it become necessary to create a new Category or API page, please follow the instructions in the remainder of this Style Guide. 


'''Please only create a new Category or API page if you are certain that it does not already exist and that it fits with and will enhance this documentation.'''
* Do not post anything that you do not have permission to post publicly.
* Please remember to keep it accurate, simple, and easy to understand.
* Please carefully follow the guidelines in this and the other [[Contributing#guides|Style Guides]] to ensure the continuing value and quality of this documentation.

~-[[#ToC|Return to Table of Contents]]-~
<br/>

<span id="blank"></span>
== Creating A New Page ==
The basic steps required to create a new page in this wiki are the same regardless of page type.  ''If'' you have determined that it is ''necessary'' to create a new page, begin here and use the following guidelines as they apply to your page type:

<span id="creating"></span>
''Action 1'': '''Create an address for the page.'''

 ''How'': Type the following into the address bar and replace <code>PageName</code> with the name of your page.  Press Enter to begin creating the page.

  ```
https://wiki.libsdl.org/PageName
```
: ~-Note: There are several ways to create a new page address.  You may choose another method if you prefer.-~

 ''Note'': The convention in this wiki is that the name of the page is also the address of the page and that CamelCase is preferable to blank spaces.<br/>''Page addresses are case-sensitive.''

 ''Example'': The address for the page [[SDL_BuildAudioCVT]]() is
: ```https://wiki.libsdl.org/SDL_BuildAudioCVT```

 <span color="red">''Important!''</span> '''Be careful to name and spell accurately when creating a new page!  You cannot delete a page or edit a page address after the page is created and saved.'''
 ||<( |2 30%>''If'' you discover a typo in the address __prior to saving the page__||''Action'': DO NOT SAVE THE PAGE!  Copy any of your contents you'd like to save, <span color="blue">Cancel</span> or close the page, and start over.<br/>Paste your contents into the new page and continue editing.||
 ||''Note'': Your old page and address will not be saved.||
 ||<( |2>''If'' you discover a typo in the address __after you saved the page__||''Action'': Send a message to <<MailTo(ANTI SPAM wiki AT libsdl DOT org)>> requesting a correction.||
 ||''Note'': You will not be able to correct it yourself.||
 ''Note'': If you type in an address and land on an existing page then most likely you do __not__ need to create a page but may need to edit the existing one instead.  If a new page is still required you will need to select a different address.

''Action 2'': '''Choose the correct Template.'''

 ''How'': If you have chosen a unique address in ''Action 1'' [[#creating|above]] then you will arrive at a page that has the following at the top followed by a table with 2 columns.
  ||'''This page does not exist yet. You can create a new empty page, or use one of the page templates.'''<br/><br/><span color="blue">Create new empty page</span>||
: Use the following table to determine which template to select.

 ||<( 30%>''If'' you need to create a new __Category page__||''Action'': See [[#category|Creating a Category Page]] below for further details||
 ||<( 30%>''If'' you need to create a new __API page__||''Action'': See [[#api|Creating an API page]] below for further details||

 ''Note'': When editing a new page the default method is the Text editor.  If you prefer to use the GUI editor click <span color="blue">GUI/Text Mode</span> in the left column to switch to the GUI editor on the new page.

 ''Note'': For information on markup used in this wiki see [[SGWikiBasics]].


~-[[#ToC|Return to Table of Contents]]-~
<br/>
<span id="category"></span>
=== Creating a Category Page ===
''Action 1'': Select <span color="blue">CategoryTemplate</span> in the LEFT column of the table.

''Action 2'': Follow the commented instructions (after ## at the beginning of a line) on the template page and use other Category pages as examples.  There is no special Category Style Guide.  Contact us if you need help or have questions.

~-[[#ToC|Return to Table of Contents]]-~
<br/>
<span id="api"></span>
=== Creating an API Page ===
''Action 1'': In the LEFT column of the table click on:
 ||<span color="blue">SDLEnumTemplate</span>||to create a page for an Enumeration or Hint||
 ||<span color="blue">SDLFunctionTemplate</span>||to create a page for a Function||
 ||<span color="blue">SDLStructTemplate</span>||to create a page for a Structure or Union||

''Action 2'': There are some very basic instructions commented (after ## at the beginning of a line) into the 3 templates, but these will be inadequate in most cases.  Depending upon the type of API page, see the appropriate [[Contributing#guides|Style Guide]] for further details.

~-[[#ToC|Return to Table of Contents]]-~



<<Include(SGWikiBasics, , , from="Start SG Include here.", to="##End SG Include here.")>>
