====== (This function is part of SDL_net, a separate library from SDL.) ======
= SDLNet_UDP_Send =

Send a single UDP packet to the specified channel.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
int SDLNet_UDP_Send(UDPsocket sock, int channel, UDPpacket *packet);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Remarks ==

If the channel specified is -1, the packet will be sent to the address in
the <code>src</code> member of the packet.

The packet will be updated with the status of the packet after it has been
sent.

'''Warning''': UDP is an _unreliable protocol_, which means we can report
that your packet has been successfully sent from your machine, but then it
never makes it to its destination when a router along the way quietly drops
it. If this happens--and this is a common result on the internet!--you will
not know the packet never made it. Also, packets may arrive in a different
order than you sent them. Plan accordingly!

'''Warning''': The maximum size of the packet is limited by the MTU
(Maximum Transfer Unit) of the transport medium. It can be as low as 250
bytes for some PPP links, and as high as 1500 bytes for ethernet. Different
sizes can be sent, but the system might split it into multiple transmission
fragments behind the scenes, that need to be reassembled on the other side
(and the packet is lost if any fragment is lost in transit). So the less
you can reasonably send in a single packet, the better, as it will be more
reliable and lower latency.

This function returns 1 if the packet was sent, or 0 on error.

----
[[CategoryAPI]]


