====== (This function is part of SDL_mixer, a separate library from SDL.) ======
= Mix_SetDistance =

Set the "distance" of a channel.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
int Mix_SetDistance(int channel, Uint8 distance);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''channel'''
|channel
|-
|'''distance'''
|distance
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns zero if error (no such channel or [[Mix_RegisterEffect]]() fails),
nonzero if position effect is enabled. Error messages can be retrieved from
[[Mix_GetError]]().

== Remarks ==

(distance) is an integer from 0 to 255 that specifies the location of the
sound in relation to the listener. Distance 0 is overlapping the listener,
and 255 is as far away as possible A distance of 255 does not guarantee
silence; in such a case, you might want to try changing the chunk's volume,
or just cull the sample from the mixing process with [[Mix_HaltChannel]]().
For efficiency, the precision of this effect may be limited (distances 1
through 7 might all produce the same effect, 8 through 15 are equal, etc).
(distance) is an integer between 0 and 255 that specifies the space between
the sound and the listener. The larger the number, the further away the
sound is. Setting (distance) to 0 unregisters this effect, since the data
would be unchanged. If you need more precise positional audio, consider
using OpenAL for spatialized effects instead of SDL_mixer. This is only
meant to be a basic effect for simple "3D" games.

Setting (channel) to [[MIX_CHANNEL_POST]] registers this as a posteffect,
and the distance attenuation will be done to the final mixed stream before
passing it on to the audio device.

This uses the [[Mix_RegisterEffect]]() API internally.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL_mixer 2.0.0.

----
[[CategoryAPI]]


