# CategoryAsyncIO

SDL offers a way to perform I/O asynchronously. This allows an app to read
or write files without waiting for data to actually transfer; the functions
that request I/O never block while the request is fulfilled.

Instead, the data moves in the background and the app can check for results
at their leisure.

This is more complicated than just reading and writing files in a
synchronous way, but it can allow for more efficiency, and never having
framerate drops as the hard drive catches up, etc.

The general usage pattern for async I/O is:

- Create one or more [SDL_AsyncIOQueue](SDL_AsyncIOQueue) objects.
- Open files with [SDL_AsyncIOFromFile](SDL_AsyncIOFromFile).
- Start I/O tasks to the files with [SDL_ReadAsyncIO](SDL_ReadAsyncIO) or
  [SDL_WriteAsyncIO](SDL_WriteAsyncIO), putting those tasks into one of the
  queues.
- Later on, use [SDL_GetAsyncIOResult](SDL_GetAsyncIOResult) on a queue to
  see if any task is finished without blocking. Tasks might finish in any
  order with success or failure.
- When all your tasks are done, close the file with
  [SDL_CloseAsyncIO](SDL_CloseAsyncIO). This also generates a task, since
  it might flush data to disk!

This all works, without blocking, in a single thread, but one can also wait
on a queue in a background thread, sleeping until new results have arrived:

- Call [SDL_WaitAsyncIOResult](SDL_WaitAsyncIOResult) from one or more
  threads to efficiently block until new tasks complete.
- When shutting down, call [SDL_SignalAsyncIOQueue](SDL_SignalAsyncIOQueue)
  to unblock any sleeping threads despite there being no new tasks
  completed.

And, of course, to match the synchronous [SDL_LoadFile](SDL_LoadFile), we
offer [SDL_LoadFileAsync](SDL_LoadFileAsync) as a convenience function.
This will handle allocating a buffer, slurping in the file data, and
null-terminating it; you still check for results later.

Behind the scenes, SDL will use newer, efficient APIs on platforms that
support them: Linux's io_uring and Windows 11's IoRing, for example. If
those technologies aren't available, SDL will offload the work to a thread
pool that will manage otherwise-synchronous loads without blocking the app.

## Best Practices

Simple non-blocking i/o--for an app that just wants to pick up data
whenever it's ready without losing framerate waiting on disks to spin--can
use whatever pattern works well for the program. In this case, simply call
[SDL_ReadAsyncIO](SDL_ReadAsyncIO), or maybe
[SDL_LoadFileAsync](SDL_LoadFileAsync), as needed. Once a frame, call
[SDL_GetAsyncIOResult](SDL_GetAsyncIOResult) to check for any completed
tasks and deal with the data as it arrives.

If two separate pieces of the same program need their own i/o, it is legal
for each to create their own queue. This will prevent either piece from
accidentally consuming the other's completed tasks. Each queue does require
some amount of resources, but it is not an overwhelming cost. Do not make a
queue for each task, however. It is better to put many tasks into a single
queue. They will be reported in order of completion, not in the order they
were submitted, so it doesn't generally matter what order tasks are
started.

One async i/o queue can be shared by multiple threads, or one thread can
have more than one queue, but the most efficient way--if ruthless
efficiency is the goal--is to have one queue per thread, with multiple
threads working in parallel, and attempt to keep each queue loaded with
tasks that are both started by and consumed by the same thread. On modern
platforms that can use newer interfaces, this can keep data flowing as
efficiently as possible all the way from storage hardware to the app, with
no contention between threads for access to the same queue.

Written data is not guaranteed to make it to physical media by the time a
closing task is completed, unless [SDL_CloseAsyncIO](SDL_CloseAsyncIO) is
called with its `flush` parameter set to true, which is to say that a
successful result here can still result in lost data during an
unfortunately-timed power outage if not flushed. However, flushing will
take longer and may be unnecessary, depending on the app's needs.

<!-- END CATEGORY DOCUMENTATION -->

## Functions

<!-- DO NOT HAND-EDIT CATEGORY LISTS, THEY ARE AUTOGENERATED AND WILL BE OVERWRITTEN, BASED ON TAGS IN INDIVIDUAL PAGE FOOTERS. EDIT THOSE INSTEAD. -->
<!-- BEGIN CATEGORY LIST: CategoryAsyncIO, CategoryAPIFunction -->
- [SDL_AsyncIOFromFile](SDL_AsyncIOFromFile)
- [SDL_CloseAsyncIO](SDL_CloseAsyncIO)
- [SDL_CreateAsyncIOQueue](SDL_CreateAsyncIOQueue)
- [SDL_DestroyAsyncIOQueue](SDL_DestroyAsyncIOQueue)
- [SDL_GetAsyncIOResult](SDL_GetAsyncIOResult)
- [SDL_GetAsyncIOSize](SDL_GetAsyncIOSize)
- [SDL_LoadFileAsync](SDL_LoadFileAsync)
- [SDL_ReadAsyncIO](SDL_ReadAsyncIO)
- [SDL_SignalAsyncIOQueue](SDL_SignalAsyncIOQueue)
- [SDL_WaitAsyncIOResult](SDL_WaitAsyncIOResult)
- [SDL_WriteAsyncIO](SDL_WriteAsyncIO)
<!-- END CATEGORY LIST -->

## Datatypes

<!-- DO NOT HAND-EDIT CATEGORY LISTS, THEY ARE AUTOGENERATED AND WILL BE OVERWRITTEN, BASED ON TAGS IN INDIVIDUAL PAGE FOOTERS. EDIT THOSE INSTEAD. -->
<!-- BEGIN CATEGORY LIST: CategoryAsyncIO, CategoryAPIDatatype -->
- [SDL_AsyncIO](SDL_AsyncIO)
- [SDL_AsyncIOQueue](SDL_AsyncIOQueue)
<!-- END CATEGORY LIST -->

## Structs

<!-- DO NOT HAND-EDIT CATEGORY LISTS, THEY ARE AUTOGENERATED AND WILL BE OVERWRITTEN, BASED ON TAGS IN INDIVIDUAL PAGE FOOTERS. EDIT THOSE INSTEAD. -->
<!-- BEGIN CATEGORY LIST: CategoryAsyncIO, CategoryAPIStruct -->
- [SDL_AsyncIOOutcome](SDL_AsyncIOOutcome)
<!-- END CATEGORY LIST -->

## Enums

<!-- DO NOT HAND-EDIT CATEGORY LISTS, THEY ARE AUTOGENERATED AND WILL BE OVERWRITTEN, BASED ON TAGS IN INDIVIDUAL PAGE FOOTERS. EDIT THOSE INSTEAD. -->
<!-- BEGIN CATEGORY LIST: CategoryAsyncIO, CategoryAPIEnum -->
- [SDL_AsyncIOResult](SDL_AsyncIOResult)
- [SDL_AsyncIOTaskType](SDL_AsyncIOTaskType)
<!-- END CATEGORY LIST -->

## Macros

<!-- DO NOT HAND-EDIT CATEGORY LISTS, THEY ARE AUTOGENERATED AND WILL BE OVERWRITTEN, BASED ON TAGS IN INDIVIDUAL PAGE FOOTERS. EDIT THOSE INSTEAD. -->
<!-- BEGIN CATEGORY LIST: CategoryAsyncIO, CategoryAPIMacro -->
- (none.)
<!-- END CATEGORY LIST -->

----
[CategoryAPICategory](CategoryAPICategory)

