====== (This is the documentation for SDL3, which is under heavy development and the API is changing! [https://wiki.libsdl.org/ SDL2] is the current stable version!) ======

== Draft ==

'''THIS PAGE IS A WORK IN PROGRESS''' ... Please make edits to this page to improve it!


<!-- #*^*^*^*^*See https://wiki.libsdl.org/SGFunctions for details on editing this page*^*^*^*^* -->
= SDL_GetGlobalMouseState =

Get the current state of the mouse in relation to the desktop.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
Uint32 SDL_GetGlobalMouseState(float *x, float *y);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''x'''
|filled in with the current X coord relative to the desktop; can be NULL
|-
|'''y'''
|filled in with the current Y coord relative to the desktop; can be NULL
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns the current button state as a bitmask which can be tested using the
[[SDL_BUTTON]](X) macros.

== Remarks ==

This works similarly to [[SDL_GetMouseState]](), but the coordinates will
be reported relative to the top-left of the desktop. This can be useful if
you need to track the mouse outside of a specific window and
[[SDL_CaptureMouse]]() doesn't fit your needs. For example, it could be
useful if you need to track the mouse while dragging a window, where
coordinates relative to a window might not be in sync at all times.

Note: [[SDL_GetMouseState]]() returns the mouse position as SDL understands
it from the last pump of the event queue. This function, however, queries
the OS for the current mouse position, and as such, might be a slightly
less efficient function. Unless you know what you're doing and have a good
reason to use this function, you probably want [[SDL_GetMouseState]]()
instead.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 3.0.0.

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_CaptureMouse]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryMouse]], [[CategoryDraft]]
<!-- #See the Style Guide for instructions on editing the footer. -->


