====== (This is the documentation for SDL3, which is under heavy development and the API is changing! SDL2 is the current stable version!) ======
= SDL_PeepEvents =

Check the event queue for messages and optionally return them.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
int SDL_PeepEvents(SDL_Event * events, int numevents,
                   SDL_eventaction action,
                   Uint32 minType, Uint32 maxType);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''events'''
|destination buffer for the retrieved events
|-
|'''numevents'''
|if action is [[SDL_ADDEVENT]], the number of events to add back to the event queue; if action is [[SDL_PEEKEVENT]] or [[SDL_GETEVENT]], the maximum number of events to retrieve
|-
|'''action'''
|action to take; see [[#action|Remarks]] for details
|-
|'''minType'''
|minimum value of the event type to be considered; [[SDL_EVENT_FIRST]] is a safe choice
|-
|'''maxType'''
|maximum value of the event type to be considered; [[SDL_EVENT_LAST]] is a safe choice
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns the number of events actually stored or a negative error code on
failure; call [[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

== Remarks ==

<code>action</code> may be any of the following:

* <code>[[SDL_ADDEVENT]]</code>: up to <code>numevents</code> events will be added to the back of the event queue.
* <code>[[SDL_PEEKEVENT]]</code>: <code>numevents</code> events at the front of the event queue, within the specified minimum and maximum type, will be returned to the caller and will _not_ be removed from the queue.
* <code>[[SDL_GETEVENT]]</code>: up to <code>numevents</code> events at the front of the event queue, within the specified minimum and maximum type, will be returned to the caller and will be removed from the queue.

You may have to call [[SDL_PumpEvents]]() before calling this function.
Otherwise, the events may not be ready to be filtered when you call
[[SDL_PeepEvents]]().

This function is thread-safe.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 3.0.0.

== Code Examples ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c++'>
Add a code example here.
</syntaxhighlight>

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_PollEvent]]
:[[SDL_PumpEvents]]
:[[SDL_PushEvent]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryEvents]]


