====== (This is the documentation for SDL3, which is under heavy development and the API is changing! [https://wiki.libsdl.org/ SDL2] is the current stable version!) ======
= SDL_ShowSimpleMessageBox =

Display a simple modal message box.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
int SDL_ShowSimpleMessageBox(Uint32 flags, const char *title, const char *message, SDL_Window *window);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''flags'''
|an [[SDL_MessageBoxFlags]] value
|-
|'''title'''
|UTF-8 title text
|-
|'''message'''
|UTF-8 message text
|-
|'''window'''
|the parent window, or NULL for no parent
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns 0 on success or a negative error code on failure; call
[[SDL_GetError]]() for more information.

== Remarks ==

If your needs aren't complex, this function is preferred over
[[SDL_ShowMessageBox]].

<code>flags</code> may be any of the following:

* <code>[[SDL_MESSAGEBOX_ERROR]]</code>: error dialog
* <code>[[SDL_MESSAGEBOX_WARNING]]</code>: warning dialog
* <code>[[SDL_MESSAGEBOX_INFORMATION]]</code>: informational dialog

This function should be called on the thread that created the parent
window, or on the main thread if the messagebox has no parent. It will
block execution of that thread until the user clicks a button or closes the
messagebox.

This function may be called at any time, even before [[SDL_Init]](). This
makes it useful for reporting errors like a failure to create a renderer or
OpenGL context.

On X11, SDL rolls its own dialog box with X11 primitives instead of a
formal toolkit like GTK+ or Qt.

Note that if [[SDL_Init]]() would fail because there isn't any available
video target, this function is likely to fail for the same reasons. If this
is a concern, check the return value from this function and fall back to
writing to stderr if you can.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 3.0.0.

== Code Examples ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c++'>
SDL_ShowSimpleMessageBox(SDL_MESSAGEBOX_ERROR,
                         "Missing file",
                         "File is missing. Please reinstall the program.",
                         NULL);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_ShowMessageBox]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryVideo]]


