====== (This is the documentation for SDL3, which is under heavy development and the API is changing! [https://wiki.libsdl.org/ SDL2] is the current stable version!) ======
= SDL_AddTimer =

Call a callback function at a future time.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
SDL_TimerID SDL_AddTimer(Uint32 interval,
                         SDL_TimerCallback callback,
                         void *param);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''interval'''
|the timer delay, in milliseconds, passed to <code>callback</code>
|-
|'''callback'''
|the [[SDL_TimerCallback]] function to call when the specified <code>interval</code> elapses
|-
|'''param'''
|a pointer that is passed to <code>callback</code>
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns a timer ID or 0 if an error occurs; call [[SDL_GetError]]() for
more information.

== Remarks ==

If you use this function, you must pass <code>[[SDL_INIT_TIMER]]</code> to
[[SDL_Init]]().

The callback function is passed the current timer interval and the user
supplied parameter from the [[SDL_AddTimer]]() call and should return the
next timer interval. If the value returned from the callback is 0, the
timer is canceled.

The callback is run on a separate thread.

Timers take into account the amount of time it took to execute the
callback. For example, if the callback took 250 ms to execute and returned
1000 (ms), the timer would only wait another 750 ms before its next
iteration.

Timing may be inexact due to OS scheduling. Be sure to note the current
time with [[SDL_GetTicksNS]]() or [[SDL_GetPerformanceCounter]]() in case
your callback needs to adjust for variances.

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL 3.0.0.

== Code Examples ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c++'>
/* Start the timer; the callback below will be executed after the delay */

Uint32 delay = (33 / 10) * 10;  /* To round it down to the nearest 10 ms */
SDL_TimerID my_timer_id = SDL_AddTimer(delay, my_callbackfunc, my_callback_param);

...

Uint32 my_callbackfunc(Uint32 interval, void *param)
{
    SDL_Event event;
    SDL_UserEvent userevent;

    /* In this example, our callback pushes an SDL_USEREVENT event
    into the queue, and causes our callback to be called again at the
    same interval: */

    userevent.type = SDL_USEREVENT;
    userevent.code = 0;
    userevent.data1 = NULL;
    userevent.data2 = NULL;

    event.type = SDL_USEREVENT;
    event.user = userevent;

    SDL_PushEvent(&event);
    return(interval);
}
</syntaxhighlight>
Note that it is possible to avoid the multithreading problems with SDL timers by giving to <code>userevent.data1</code> the address of a function you want to be executed and to <code>userevent.data2</code> its params, and then deal with it in the event loop.
<syntaxhighlight lang='c++'>
/* with the same code as before: */
Uint32 my_callbackfunc(Uint32 interval, void *param)
{
    SDL_Event event;
    SDL_UserEvent userevent;

    /* In this example, our callback pushes a function
    into the queue, and causes our callback to be called again at the
    same interval: */

    userevent.type = SDL_USEREVENT;
    userevent.code = 0;
    userevent.data1 = &my_function;
    userevent.data2 = param;

    event.type = SDL_USEREVENT;
    event.user = userevent;

    SDL_PushEvent(&event);
    return(interval);
}

/* Now the event loop */
SDL_Event event;
while (SDL_PollEvent (&event))
{
    switch(event.type)
    {
        case SDL_USEREVENT: {
            /* and now we can call the function we wanted to call in the timer but couldn't because of the multithreading problems */
            void (*p) (void*) = event.user.data1;
            p(event.user.data2);
            break;
        }
        /* ... */
    }
}
</syntaxhighlight>

== Related Functions ==

:[[SDL_RemoveTimer]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]], [[CategoryTimer]]


