====== (This function is part of SDL_image, a separate library from SDL.) ======
= IMG_LoadTyped_RW =

Load an image from an SDL data source into a software surface.

== Syntax ==

<syntaxhighlight lang='c'>
SDL_Surface * IMG_LoadTyped_RW(SDL_RWops *src, int freesrc, const char *type);
</syntaxhighlight>

== Function Parameters ==

{|
|'''src'''
|an SDL_RWops that data will be read from.
|-
|'''freesrc'''
|non-zero to close/free the SDL_RWops before returning, zero to leave it open.
|-
|'''type'''
|a filename extension that represent this data ("BMP", "GIF", "PNG", etc).
|}

== Return Value ==

Returns a new SDL surface, or NULL on error.

== Remarks ==

An SDL_Surface is a buffer of pixels in memory accessible by the CPU. Use
this if you plan to hand the data to something else or manipulate it
further in code.

If you are using SDL's 2D rendering API, there is an equivalent call to
load images directly into an SDL_Texture for use by the GPU without using a
software surface: call [[IMG_LoadTextureTyped_RW]]() instead.

If the image format supports a transparent pixel, SDL will set the colorkey
for the surface. You can enable RLE acceleration on the surface afterwards
by calling: SDL_SetColorKey(image, SDL_RLEACCEL, image->format->colorkey);

If <code>freesrc</code> is non-zero, the RWops will be closed before
returning, whether this function succeeds or not. SDL_mixer reads
everything it needs from the RWops during this call in any case.

There is a separate function to read files from disk without having to deal
with SDL_RWops: <code>[[IMG_Load]]("filename.jpg")</code> will call this
function and manage those details for you, determining the file type from
the filename's extension.

There is also [[IMG_Load_RW]](), which is equivalent to this function
except that it will rely on SDL_image to determine what type of data it is
loading.

When done with the returned surface, the app should dispose of it with a
call to SDL_FreeSurface().

== Version ==

This function is available since SDL_mixer 2.6.0 (and as a macro since
2.0.0).

== Related Functions ==

:[[IMG_Load]]
:[[IMG_Load_RW]]
:[[SDL_FreeSurface]]

----
[[CategoryAPI]]


